=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Renard::Incunabula::MuPDF::mutool - Retrieve PDF image and text data via MuPDF's mutool

=head1 VERSION

version 0.003

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 _call_mutool

  _call_mutool( @args )

Helper function which calls C<mutool> with the contents of the C<@args> array.

Returns the captured C<STDOUT> of the call.

This function dies if C<mutool> unsuccessfully exits.

=head2 get_mutool_pdf_page_as_png

  get_mutool_pdf_page_as_png($pdf_filename, $pdf_page_no)

This function returns a PNG stream that renders page number C<$pdf_page_no> of
the PDF file C<$pdf_filename>.

=head2 get_mutool_text_stext_raw

  get_mutool_text_stext_raw($pdf_filename, $pdf_page_no)

This function returns an XML string that contains structured text from page
number C<$pdf_page_no> of the PDF file C<$pdf_filename>.

The XML format is defined by the output of C<mutool> looks like this (for page
23 of the C<pdf_reference_1-7.pdf> file):

  <document name="test-data/test-data/PDF/Adobe/pdf_reference_1-7.pdf">
    <page width="531" height="666">
      <block bbox="261.18 616.16394 269.77765 625.2532">
        <line bbox="261.18 616.16394 269.77765 625.2532">
          <span bbox="261.18 616.16394 269.77765 625.2532" font="MyriadPro-Semibold" size="7.98">
            <char bbox="261.18 616.16394 265.50037 625.2532" x="261.18" y="623.2582" c="2"/>
            <char bbox="265.50037 616.16394 269.77765 625.2532" x="265.50037" y="623.2582" c="3"/>
          </span>
        </line>
      </block>
      <block bbox="225.78 88.20229 305.18158 117.93829">
        <line bbox="225.78 88.20229 305.18158 117.93829">
          <span bbox="225.78 88.20229 305.18158 117.93829" font="MyriadPro-Bold" size="24">
            <char bbox="225.78 88.20229 239.5176 117.93829" x="225.78" y="111.93829" c="P"/>
            <char bbox="239.5176 88.20229 248.4552 117.93829" x="239.5176" y="111.93829" c="r"/>
            <char bbox="248.4552 88.20229 261.1128 117.93829" x="248.4552" y="111.93829" c="e"/>
            <char bbox="261.1128 88.20229 269.28238 117.93829" x="261.1128" y="111.93829" c="f"/>
            <char bbox="269.28238 88.20229 281.93997 117.93829" x="269.28238" y="111.93829" c="a"/>
            <char bbox="281.93997 88.20229 292.50958 117.93829" x="281.93997" y="111.93829" c="c"/>
            <char bbox="292.50958 88.20229 305.18158 117.93829" x="292.50958" y="111.93829" c="e"/>
          </span>
        </line>
      </block>
    </page>
  </document>

Simplified, the high-level structure looks like:

  <page> -> [list of blocks]
    <block> -> [list of blocks]
      a block is either:
        - stext
            <line> -> [list of lines] (all have same baseline)
              <span> -> [list of spans] (horizontal spaces over a line)
                <char> -> [list of chars]
        - image
            # TODO document the image data from mutool

=head2 get_mutool_text_stext_xml

  get_mutool_text_stext_xml($pdf_filename, $pdf_page_no)

Returns a HashRef of the structured text from from page
number C<$pdf_page_no> of the PDF file C<$pdf_filename>.

See the function L<get_mutool_text_stext_raw|/get_mutool_text_stext_raw> for
details on the structure of this data.

=head2 get_mutool_page_info_raw

  get_mutool_page_info_raw($pdf_filename)

Returns an XML string of the page bounding boxes of PDF file C<$pdf_filename>.

The data is in the form:

  <document>
    <page pagenum="1">
      <MediaBox l="0" b="0" r="531" t="666" />
      <CropBox l="0" b="0" r="531" t="666" />
      <Rotate v="0" />
    </page>
    <page pagenum="2">
      ...
    </page>
  </document>

=head2 get_mutool_page_info_xml

  get_mutool_page_info_xml($pdf_filename)

Returns a HashRef containing the page bounding boxes of PDF file
C<$pdf_filename>.

See function L<get_mutool_page_info_raw|/get_mutool_page_info_raw> for
information on the structure of the data.

=head2 get_mutool_outline_simple

  fun get_mutool_outline_simple($pdf_filename)

Returns an array of the outline of the PDF file C<$pdf_filename> as an
C<ArrayRef[HashRef]> which corresponds to the C<items> attribute of
L<Renard::Incunabula::Outline>.

=head2 get_mutool_get_trailer_raw

  fun get_mutool_get_trailer_raw($pdf_filename)

Returns the trailer of the PDF file C<$pdf_filename> as a string.

=head2 get_mutool_get_object_raw

  fun get_mutool_get_object_raw($pdf_filename, $object_id)

Returns the object given by the ID C<$object_id> for PDF file C<$pdf_filename>
as a string.

=head2 get_mutool_get_info_object_parsed

  fun get_mutool_get_info_object_parsed( $pdf_filename )

Returns the document information dictionary as a
L<Renard::Incunabula::MuPDF::mutool::ObjectParser> object.

See Table 10.2 on pg. 844 of the I<PDF Reference, version 1.7> to see the
entries that usually used (e.g., Title, Author).

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Repository information|http://project-renard.github.io/doc/development/repo/p5-Renard-Incunabula-MuPDF-mutool/>

=head1 AUTHOR

Project Renard

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

This software is copyright (c) 2017 by Project Renard.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

=cut
